[Music]
early on we did a couple of episodes on
money and we've gotten a lot of
questions since then people wanting to
go deeper on that topic and and the
other day you were telling some people
about your story with money and there
was a lot of components to that that I
found really fascinating and I'd really
love to just go deeper into that on this
episode that sounds awesome I I have to
be I have to be confessional I'm not
sure if I remember I remember us talking
about the business money for a bit did
we actually have a whole like
podcast on money like what is money yeah
we did we did two short episodes uh and
it sort of worked out so that the first
one was on the projection that money is
good the second one operation of money
is bad or maybe I got that reversed but
basically it was like the um the good
and the bad projections of money okay
yeah yeah this will be yeah
cool I'd love to make it a little less
abstract and more personal Oh Yeah from
your your experience yeah yeah let's do
that that sounds great so tell me about
your experience with money
[Laughter]
uh so I I'm just gonna go sequentially
and feel free to if you remember
anything or just drop any questions in
sequentially the first thing that
happened was that I I was raised in a
family where money was really important
like status and having the right car and
and my dad
you know he grew up I think as a lot of
people do they grew up without enough
his mom grew up in the depression he was
born in the depression and so having
money was really an important thing and
so he he cared about money and it and as
a as a kid it always felt like he cared
more about money than he did about me
and so I saw like the Deep urge for the
Cadillac
um and and making sure that the house
was blah blah blah and everything you
know and that they had the Rolex watch
and all that stuff and somehow or
another my brain interpreted that as
like money isn't a more important thing
than me and so in my brain what happened
was money became bad
money was the thing that took my dad's
love away from me money was the thing
that took people out of out of presence
out of you know being there with their
kids money was this thing that was
to be chased after and where and I was
like well I'm right here what do you
need to chase after was pretty much the
emotional experience for me as a kid
around money so I'm serious before you
move on there how much how much did you
also maybe paradoxly take on that the
belief the water you were swimming in
that we don't have enough money money is
important
to what extent was that sort of a as a
great Point yeah both were taken on both
were taken on so there was a part of me
that wanted money and wanting to have
enough of it and there was a part of me
that was money was bad and I was
rejecting it
so it was ABS it was absolutely a push
and pull
thing
I didn't really want the money when I
was younger but that desire for the
money kicked in for sure by the time I
was in my 20s
but the money was bad that kicked in 13.
and so
that's what I was in touch with was that
the money was bad by 13 years old and I
just
anybody with money was bad really rich
people were bad the guy in the Porsche
was a prick like it was that was my
experience money was not was something
that took you away from anything that
was important in life and you were vapid
and if you had money and so that's
really how I was walking through life in
my in my teens and in my and in my 20s
and what did that do to your development
with that with that lens coloring your
your experience what it get money away
it kept money away from me and it kept
it away in in two ways like
one of the ways that kept it away from
me was because I would
I would naturally get a lot of money
thrown at me I remember you know I
graduated from college and then I
um worked in a fishery and then in
Alaska and then I taught in Head Start
and then I was like oh let's make some
money and
you know things I work I found a job in
Investment Banking and seriously within
three uh 16 months or something like
that I was making enormous amounts of
money
and I was like this is bad and I quit
and and yet you were attracted to
Investment Banking and the other side of
that Paradox was active yeah exactly
right I was I was a push pull in my
system and yeah
um
and I found my head wanting the money
and thinking that the money was Freedom
like if I had enough money I could be
free and and I had that whole thought
process happening and which would would
which would become illuminated later
um and at the same time I was like
money's bad all these people in
Investment Banking all they care about
is that you know making more money so it
was it was I was in a situation where I
was pushing and pulling against myself
and I was constantly finding proof that
it was bad so I went into
[Music]
Investment Banking and I was like this
is horrible you know this is all bad
um
and then I chased art and it was like
seven years later something like that I
realized they were the same thing and so
this amazing recognition that it was
just like I everything I saw was just
shaded by money is bad and and I and I
anything that I saw that was bad that
related to money with money was the
cause of it you know if there was a rich
person who was acting like an ass it
wasn't there an [__] who happens to
be rich it was money makes that person
act like an [__] so I was constantly
finding the proof of it yeah and what
did what did that do for you emotionally
to to continuously find more proof that
money was bad what did that protect you
from feeling for example
um my wanting for it and the fact that I
mean part of it was I was bad for
wanting money and I wanted money and so
there was like that that constant fight
actually more than anything prevented me
from my joy and my
and my ears so it was almost a way of
proving that you were bad
absolutely proving that the aspect of
you that wanted money was bad yeah yeah
you know in my 20s I was constantly
self-abusive I hadn't really it wasn't
even until like 24 or 25 that I realized
that I had a critical voice in the head
that was
abusing me right so
so that's that and so everything that I
had was a fight and this was
particularly probably one of the biggest
fights I was in with myself yeah yeah
and so as we talked about in your story
you started to recognize around that
time that you had this voice in your
head how did spirituality and your your
self-exploration journey play into this
yeah
so yeah I I any spiritual teacher that
had anything to do with money any
development teacher that anything to do
with money they were corrupt and crappy
right so it was like my first thing to
do was a 10-day Meditation Retreat and I
only went because the person was like
you can't pay this is donated to you you
can't it has to you have to assume it's
a gift if you want to donate afterwards
fine but you have to you can't pay for
this I was like okay that's real irony
is that is actually very much defined
about money it's pretty much about money
to be like you cannot pay yeah exactly
exactly but in my head it was just like
oh they're not doing it for the money
therefore they can be trusted and I mean
I remember like somebody who became one
of my you know really uh favorite
teachers I was at the looking at their
book and in the back of the book there
was a picture of them and I was like oh
they're trying to get notoriety and Fame
and money and so they can't be a good
teacher because there's a picture of
them on the back of the book like it got
like that deep in my system anybody
doing any it didn't
I couldn't conceive of the fact that
their picture was on the book because
they wanted people to be able to connect
or their picture was on the book because
they wanted to present themselves as a
real human not as a
you know some fantasy that people could
project on or and so it was just they
had a picture therefore they must be
interested in Fame and money and
therefore I couldn't trust them as a
teacher and so there's a linkage here
with Fame too
Empower Fame any kind of like cachet
notoriety status anything around status
status got it because to me my Father's
Quest for money was all about status so
any version of that you know and and
that's that's Mary money just started
being
you know money was a representation of
anything I projected onto it so
and so spirituality was the opposite of
It Whatever whatever I I had this idea
of what spirituality was
which was interestingly to find out
later that the beginning of roaches of
my spirituality were all about status it
was all about you know
being like perfect in some way right and
um
and so yeah how much are you creating a
hierarchy of status of which teachers
are the most
exact not staticy exactly exactly yeah
you couldn't see any of that at the time
so that's what happened and then and
then somewhere along the line I don't
remember where this came but somewhere
along the mine I I was I was more and
more in touch with the fact that I
wanted money and I think that happened
because I lived without it I lived
without it for
by close to a decade I like went into
debt so I could sit and meditate and and
I but I would worry about money
and but I wouldn't do anything for money
or I'd like work for a week every month
just to have enough money to be able to
pay the bills but I was still going into
debt and
and so as the money thing got Tighter
and Tighter I wanted it more and more it
became more and more this thing that was
supposed to give me freedom
and somehow or another I I started to
practice having gratitude for money
and doing a gratitude practice every day
for 10 minutes a day and I did it with
Tara
and what did that look like it was
literally being grateful for what I did
have and so I the the concept was at the
time I can't remember if I may like did
this on my own but the concept was I'm
constantly thinking about what I don't
have
and what happens if I constantly think
about what I do have how does that
change thing if I stop thinking about
the lack and I start thinking about
this was the original idea if I start
thinking about all the all that I do
have how does that change the way I look
at everything because I was just looking
at everything like I didn't there wasn't
enough and so I just every day 10
minutes a day we would sit and just be
grateful for every oh look we have a
working car oh we had food today
whatever it was and it was always around
stuff that like resources money could
get us and we just did it and literally
whatever it was this is like 30s it was
literally like six months later
there is just more there's a ton of
money in our in our world
and what I thought was a ton of money at
the time and
and it was it was like in that gratitude
practice I started seeing all the
opportunities I started seeing what was
right and how to grow it instead of what
was wrong and
how to fix it I I could
see all these opportunities that came
and
and I could see that they were
everywhere I remember in that process at
some point I could look out and I just
saw that everything every somebody made
money on everything I was looking at I
was living in La at the time and it was
just like
oh that concrete 20 people made uh made
money on that concrete
you know that's that road light the
electricity that it brings to the road
like the paint on the road light I could
just see like everywhere I looked there
was ways people were making money money
was money was so available it was all
over it was like
endless and I had never seen that before
I thought that there was a shortage of
it I thought I believed that there was
not enough of it and that you had to
fight for it instead of like holy crap
this is just like this is like walking
through a jungle of money and finances
you just have to like reach up and pick
stuff off and so that gratitude really
really helped
with that experience and and and so
that's when money started to flow into
my life like just comfortably easily and
it was I think it was like six or eight
months from starting that practice to
like being completely out of debt making
a living doing art
happy and we're like oh let's have a kid
and like because I wasn't worried about
money it was just like that practice was
a real big life changer for me so one
thing I'm noticing here is that you went
from you went from all that debt through
this gratitude practice maybe perhaps
something that was dismantled there was
this the idea that status and Money Was
Gonna Get You Love or make you lovable
and then
that didn't really get dismantled until
a little bit later okay it was more that
money wasn't bad
yeah yeah
it was like oh my if I can be grateful
for it there's something good here and
then all of a sudden I I it started to
open up like there's tons of it and it's
a and it's something to be grateful for
instead of some a demon that I'm trying
to exercise it wasn't so much that like
I uh money to be loved I hadn't figured
that out yet what I what I figured out
was that money was something you could
be grateful for so it could be good it
could be something that you appreciate
and I figured out there was a ton of it
there is a holy crap ton of money out
there and it's like walking through a
jungle of money and all you have to do
is like just pick off the trees and
those were the two things that that
practice really helped
with me and that's when that's when the
money door started opening up for me
yeah and it's just fascinating for me
that you didn't go back to Investment
Banking where you had been making money
before to get the money you went into
the Arts
at that point I'd been I'd been at this
point I was focusing on trying to make
money as an artist for an extended
period of time
and and I had that moment of recognition
that oh the thing that I was running
towards in the art was the same thing I
was running away from in Investment
Banking it was the same crap
um as far as like Soul killing and for
the kinds of the kind of art I wanted to
do and then
and then all of a sudden this new form
of art just appeared as I started
started appreciating all of a sudden
opportunities and I started doing a
large scale video art installations it
just happened and I just loved it and it
just started occurring
and so money was just just became this
thing and I also started educating
myself on money at that point it was the
first time that I was just like oh I'm
so fascinated what the hell is this
thing that I was completely
not attuned to at all you know like that
I had rejected in so many ways so many
ways like
from friends and family and and just so
many ways I had rejected money I was
like what is this thing that I'm
rejecting and then I started educating
myself on it
yeah so I'm hearing that you kind of
dropped into view around the topic of
money that's right and started to have
the Wonder and the the Curiosity to
learn more about it yeah yeah that's
exactly right that's what happened and
see the Dynamics around you yeah and
then it the next thing that happened in
that world I I ended up running across
two or three two that I remember
billionaires at the time and they were
you know both of them hadn't inherited
their wealth and I met both of them
through ART and and through my passion
for the environment and I remember
driving the next big experience I had
was I remember driving my car and
thinking about how I didn't have enough
and in that moment
I was like
I thought of the two billionaires and
I'm like they are also right now
probably thinking they don't have enough
because I knew him and I knew even if
they would have like logically said I
have enough money their minds were
constantly going to what they didn't
have
and I was like oh I'm a [__]
billionaire you know and I and I saw
that there's there's people on the Earth
like if you're some of the poorest
people in America you're in the top one
percent in the world I'm like there's
people on Earth who are like how could
that dude be unhappy and think he
doesn't have enough when he can like go
to a restaurant buy a Pupusa you know or
or you know like what what is going on
and I just saw the whole thing
this like this shackle of thinking that
that I didn't have enough
and and in that I'm like oh I'm the same
as a billionaire there's no difference
really I mean like
yeah perhaps they can like rent a Jet
and and or buy a jet and I can't
but
my reality is either I have a ton or I
have nothing or I don't have enough and
it doesn't really matter how much you
actually have
um I mean within a level of you know if
you can feed yourself or or you know put
yourself in a safe environment and so
that was that was amazing and in that
recognition that came another
recognition which is
really expensive to be poor was that was
this other thing is like I was really
good at being poor
I figured out a way to do a whole bunch
of things that with no money you know I
found my way down the Grand Canyon on a
14-day trip and I found a way to
you know
buy musical equipment when I wanted to
do that and I I found ways to do stuff
but it took a lot of time it took a lot
of time and it was like oh
I'm spending a lot of money
or a lot of time to be poor
and so it was just an interesting
recognition that same time that it was
like oh it's expensive to be poor if
you're if you're fighting against you
know abundance which is what I was doing
so that was another really big moment
for me so let's drill in on that a
little bit more so what I what I kind of
heard there is that because you had
closed off a lot of your potential
reality of ways that you might actually
make money and pay for the thing instead
you would go through a more
energetically and time expensive process
in order to save the money or do the
thing while still being able to push
money away right right and you're
describing that as being expensive yeah
like so instead of oh I'm gonna do [__]
that I really love make money so that I
can buy other stuff that I really want
to do I would
do a whole bunch of [__] to like cajole
my way into a situation none of which I
wanted to do none of which was creating
the reality I wanted to see on Earth
so that I could get down the Grand
Canyon you know and so it so that's what
I mean by expensive it was like it it
meant that my I was spending my energy
by avoiding money I was spending my
energy in a way that wasn't fully
aligned with who I was and so that
that's what I mean by expensive and that
and that actually started hit really
home when I read this book it was called
the soul of money I remember it wasn't
written in a great way like it was kind
of there were some issues like I I was
annoyed reading it but the ideas were
really quite Priceless in it and I ended
up meeting the woman her name was Lynn
twist and
later in life and the two things were
that like money is just an ex the main
thesis behind the book was that money is
a neutral thing that can be ex aligned
with who you are and not aligned with
who you are and if you can express money
if you can use money to be an expression
of who you are and what you want in the
world
then money is a wonderful thing and if
you are controlled or ruled by money
then it's a whole different thing and
she had some really great stories in
that book and I remember one of the ones
that was that hit me
really hard at the time but it didn't
really hit till later
was this story it was a like near the
end of the book it was this it was like
this Amazon tribe or something they said
if you're here to help us no thank you
but if you're if we're here to work
together for our mutual Freedom let's
get to work
and that I remember that like stuck with
me that was like a seed that planted
that didn't Sprout till much later
around money
but the thing that sprouted right away
was oh I money doesn't I don't work for
money money works for me
uh money the job for my job is to make
sure that money is an expression of what
I want to see in the world
and so that was that was like the first
big crack in how I saw money Jess is
like I no longer saw money as something
that was solid I saw money as the thing
in which I projected onto it
yeah and I could see that also applying
to the peripheral around money the
status the fame Social Capital which is
a really great term relating to money
Capital yeah yeah that that's another
thing that can be you know you can you
can build or use that within or out of
alignment with yourself and that's
really what this a lot of the work comes
down to is
how in alignment as an expression of
yourself is
whatever it is you're relating to
whatever you're relating to it yeah yeah
and that was the first time that I got
to really see it as as projection too
which means like
I that was at that moment that I could
see oh I projected it was bad and so it
was bad I could project that it's
anything but and what I noticed is that
everybody had a different projection
around money and it Brandon related not
to money at all you know it was it was
just the way that we would like project
um our past traumas on our current
lovers or our mom and dad on our lovers
I just saw like all of a sudden I saw oh
money is just this thing like an
authority figure or anything a famous
person is just it's just there to catch
our projections it's going to give us
freedom no it's not you can project it
you can you know uh it's going to give
me safety it's going to give me blah
blah blah blah blah it's like all of
that I just saw all the projections on
it like money is what you make it to be
and that and that that that's what
really hit in that moment for me
yeah so if you were to trace some of
those projections back the way that we
do with projections as something that
we're not owning in our self what does
that what does that do for
yeah for this part of your journey yeah
so for me my personal level of rejection
what I found out as I kind of presented
a little bit earlier was that I use the
same Bridge the beginning of the
recognition was I was presenting the
same thing into spirituality so at this
point in my spirituality I was chasing
Enlightenment you know I was trying to
have that moment of Awakening and
and I realized that like oh I'm
projecting onto money I'm projecting
onto that at the same time it was like
if I'm good enough if I breathe enough
if I eat the right thing if I like have
a calm enough mind if I then I can have
money then I can be like I had this idea
that like it took confidence to be rich
it's just like I've now met a lot of
rich people I can tell you a [__] ton of
people aren't confident and
but it's the same it's like
this stuff isn't earned you know money
money is not always earned it can be
earned Awakening is not always earned
either like it can also be a gift and
and it doesn't work the way that we're
told that it works and
it doesn't mean that you don't have to
be conscious I don't I don't mean to say
that like
hard work is bad or earning something is
bad or that it's not necessary what I
mean to say is
I had set up hurdle after hurdle after
hurdle after hurdle that was required
some level of confidence some Perfection
something that I had to do so that I
could get what I wanted
and this is the and those were all my
projections and when that fell apart it
became really clear it's like oh all
those hurdles I've made for myself so
that I can become wealthy slash awakened
slash happy it's all [__] it's like
whatever I want to find can be found
right now in this moment
whatever I think money can give me it
can I can find right now in this moment
all the really important stuff
yeah it speaks to sort of a common
cultural belief system of that it wasn't
really worth it unless I worked hard for
it
yeah yeah yeah yeah like yeah if if
there is if Awakening or if
if money can just come to me or if if I
can just have enough or I can just feel
the enoughness right now then it's just
that's just worthless I can push that
aside and then get to the hard work of
getting the thing that's really the gold
right exactly and right it's like and
and in Awakening circles they'll talk
about it as like you've always been
awake
there's nothing you have to do for it
and you're like shut up what like okay
I'm just gonna go meditate some more you
know like you don't you don't say that
out loud because that would be very
non-spiritual of you but that's what's
actually happening yeah yeah you know
your mind's like okay yeah yeah I got
that so how do I get there you know that
that whole thing and it was the same
with money and and that and that I saw
that those two projections were really
the same projection that
both of them were going to be Avenues
both money and Awakening was going to be
Avenues to my happiness and that there
was no Avenue to my happiness there was
no Avenue to my peace there was no
Avenue to my joy it was right here
or making them making your happiness or
your peace or your joy contingent on
those things which makes it conditional
correct and sets it up so you don't get
to have it yeah exactly and and when
that recognition happened then all of a
sudden the fear of money the fear that
came with money went away oh my God what
if I don't get a job what if I don't
have a what if I don't know what if I go
homeless what if I all that just kind of
dissipated how much was the fear of
money like a fear of getting what you
want or a fear of actually letting
yourself have the joy have the
enoughness
yeah it was all that that's what it was
yeah for sure the fear or the fear of
yeah the fear of Joy the pleasure
anxiety lots of words for it that's what
it was yeah
and the other thing that happened at
this moment was that that's when I saw
money less is something that got had to
be earned like it was less material and
it was more energetic it was more how
you really it was more like a person
right you walk into a bar
and you're trying to pick up somebody
it's less about how you look and it's
more about your attitude that you're
carrying with you if you walk into a
sales thing it's less about what you're
selling and more about how you hold
yourself when you sell and and so it was
the same thing all of a sudden I saw
money as that like money my relationship
with money was how I reacted with it
and so the way that I treated money is
the way that money it was going to be
determine how my how money was going to
treat me and so it was the first time
that it became I saw it more as like an
energetic Exchange
and then it just kind of Builds on
itself just like taking care like it's
the same thing with like food it's like
how I my relationship with food is going
to be my how my food treats me or you
know exercise or body it's the same
thought process it just becomes more of
an energetic exchange at that point yeah
that's something that brings up there's
there's a lot of kind of points we've
hit in this conversation yeah that
for example like the kind of the
abundance mindset the Gratitude around
money and the energetic exchange that
I've
sometimes see described or used in terms
in ways that can be bypassy like oh yeah
like imagining if like I'm running a
business and you know people are buying
cell phones that go to the store and
we're like it's an energetic exchange
you're not you know it's not about
paying money for your cell phone plan
it's about an energetic exchange and
there's like a reality to that but
there's also
like I don't want to be like piling on
anybody who might use that term here in
their work right um yeah I think I think
there's something really beautiful about
recognizing what it is
um and I'm also just curious to kind of
dig into where some of these
recognitions that you had
uh where
where do you see them kind of going to
the other side of the pendulum
uh and how do you yeah what experience
you have with it kind of grounding that
into uh I think you describe it well
which is like if if you're trying to use
that as a way to bypass an emotional
fear
like or any emotional like complexity
then you're like then you're then you're
fooling yourself
um when I say energetic exchange I think
the most perfect example of this was you
know it was about this time when I
started working as a philanthropist and
I was you know giving away millions of
dollars
for this family and
and it's when I realized like oh there's
like giving away money is destructive
like it's it it's like there has to be
an exchange there has to be uh and this
is actually where that thing came in if
you're here to help me no thank you
if you're here to for us to work
together for our mutual Freedom let's
get to work that's what I mean by
energetic Exchange
what I mean to say is it has to be like
a good relationship has to require that
both people are giving and receiving
that there is uh an exchange happening
it's not all one way
all one way creates toxicity
and that's what I saw I saw that like oh
this thing is like it needs flow it
needs movement it needs to go in both
directions
otherwise it's a build up
one way or another right it either
becomes toxic because you you have so
much of it in the wrong way or it
becomes toxic because you don't have
enough of it but it's like the exchange
is just not
that's what I mean by it
yeah I guess one of the things that
comes up from you there is that like
money is really something that
represents it's a it's an intermediary
that represents the energetic Exchange
in society and if you just pour a bunch
of money on something sometimes it'll
just totally wash out the signal of what
was actually being exchanged and what
structures existed
sometimes the structures were
you know unfair or in some kind out of
balance but also sometimes you just
totally wipe out a structure yeah you're
starting from no man's land or something
no just starting from some kind of like
lost territory and have to rebuild the
structure
and also can be destructive
you have that depending on the time
scale you know it's about this time I
think when I heard this person tell me
how this thing said if you pay off
somebody else's credit card debt without
them asking
you will incur their debt but you won't
relieve it
meaning that like it was it's the same
thing it wasn't about money in
particular he used this particular thing
he was talking about if you go in and
you try to help somebody without them
asking for the help without them
participating in it
you are going to take on that burden but
you're not going to relieve them of that
burden
and that's the same thing with money
and what do you mean not relieve that
burden like they're still going to feel
the best they still have the deals they
still have the debt yeah they still have
it
the belief systems around it the the
feeling of
not having dignity or something is that
is that kind of what you're pointing to
I mean it's it's very much like uh like
most people who won the lottery
two years later have no money and wish
they had never won the lottery
that's that's like the typical thing so
it's a it's there has to be an energetic
exchange for there to be transformation
that lasts
you know there's huge trillions of
dollars have gone to help
people that have gone completely to
waste and typically what I saw in
non-profit land was that was because it
was out of guilt
and out of
a a it was out of guilt it was also not
an exchange it's like we're here to help
you so that we can feel good about
ourselves
right you're here to help us no thank
you yeah we're just together for our
mutual freedom
which is a starting point of
disconnection if you're correct if
you're doing something to actually just
change your own internal State then
you're not actually in connection with
where the money's going or what you're
doing with it right and that's so that's
why whenever the support yeah and that's
why when I say if you're using any of
these thought process as an emotional
bypass
it like all like for me my journey with
money has always been going into the
pain
has always been going into the
discomfort all this stuff that I learned
was by going into the discomfort of
money it wasn't trying to escape it
um
yeah so
in the spirit of not escaping it I'd
love to go back to
where this initial relationship with
money was imprinted and a lot of it
coming from your dad and so how does how
does this journey then relate to or how
has it revealed
your relationship with your dad yeah so
yeah so cool because that's really
literally the next thing that happened I
was
hey I was doing Venture at this point
and this is kind of where it all kind of
just came together all of what I had
learned had come together at this moment
and I'm in El Salvador for spring break
and my wife and daughter have to leave
because somebody died and I'm sitting
there in a hammock
and I read this news of WhatsApp which
is basically this venture capitalist
tried to get their Venture team to
invest in WhatsApp they wouldn't so they
invested their own money they invested
like a half a million or a million
dollar or something like that guy worked
at Sequoia I think and
a year later he's a billionaire like it
was just it just was like it was one of
those like massive success stories
really really quickly
and when I read it it felt like someone
punched me in the gut just [__] hit
me as hard as they could in the guy I
had a visceral somatic reaction of just
like oh
for whatever reason through Grace
immediately I was like what is that
feeling what when did I feel that
feeling for the first time I closed my
eyes
I went into my body I did not think
about it I let my body trace it back to
the very first time and I was like
oh that's me trying to get my dad's love
and it was at that moment I realized my
entire relationship
with money has been a projection of me
trying to get my dad's love the whole
thing there wasn't it was bad I wanted
it but I didn't want it at the same time
there wasn't enough of it
you know like all all the whole thing I
was just like whoa
I just bawled I just sat in this hammock
awkwardly bald in this public pool for
good if I semi public pool for a while
and
and it just like something my whole body
my whole system had changed and all and
all of a sudden money was
money was
a tool money for the first time was just
something
that was that I could use it was the
first time that I fully felt like oh
money works for me I don't work for
money in a way that was just like fully
embodied hmm
and
at that point on money has always just
come incredibly easy
but more importantly it
I remember so shortly after that that I
started deciding to coach folks because
I was
like oh yeah I don't need to be a
venture capitalist and
and I started to coach some folks and
I remember to the people who wanted
coaching two of the first four people
who wanted coaching were both incredibly
wealthy folks people who I had come into
contact somewhat recently and
and they were both if they weren't
billionaires they were really close
and
I would go through this process with
each of them and the process I called it
the Happy Money game and what we would
do was I would say okay I will Coach you
for one session you have to reciprocate
in some way
I don't care if you give me a million
dollars
or you put a million dollars into my
kids college fund or if you give a
dollar to a homeless person don't care
just want you to reciprocate in a way
that feels right for you
and then if you want to work with me and
I want to work with you
we will play the Happy Money game which
was an exchange of proposals and the
person who had a proposal that worked
for both people won so it would be like
I think I should pay you 500 an hour and
my response would be like that doesn't
500 an hour doesn't you know
guarantee that you're going to show up
and do the work so I'm not interested in
500 an hour so I propose you know
whatever ten thousand dollars an hour
and that that would be the exchange that
went back and forth
with one of those two people our
financial agreement was
I will not take any money from you
refuse to take any money because that
person's particular situation was that
they bought everything
they had money and they'd had it for so
long that they could buy anything and so
the only way that the relationship could
have trust for me was that he couldn't
buy me
and so I worked with this person for
quite a long time for no money
the other person it was you're gonna pay
me the problem there was that he had a
hard time dedicating to things Nike
commitment he'd all you know very
scattered
super brilliant very scattered so that
was you're going to pay me some enormous
amount of money or at least and what I
thought was enormous at the time and
then enormous amount of money
and then if you do not do the work then
you're gonna pay me twice the money
and you're going to if I recall
correctly it was and you're going to
send me a recording five minute
recording every day for 30 days telling
me that you
love yourself and if you don't do that
then you're going to pay me Triple the
money
that was a relationship
and so money just became this tool of
like how do I use money as one more tool
to help people in their transformation
which is what I care about which was
what was in alignment with me and that's
when money
I could not do that until that moment of
scene through money and what it was and
what I had made out of it the like the
ultimate projection for me around money
yeah I love how like in in the first
case you described
this person
in in the pattern of buying everything
always had a reason to believe it wasn't
real always had a reason to believe they
didn't deserve it always had a belief a
reason to separate themselves from it
because oh I bought this especially if
it's something interpersonal like
coaching you don't like the second
you're not committed to me right yeah
right and then the second one around the
commitment it was like okay great you're
gonna win either way because either
you're gonna stay in the coaching and be
committed to the coaching or the
agreement is that you're going to go
through you know your joy anxiety yeah
exactly like of giving yourself love or
at least experiencing your resistance to
doing so yeah yeah and I was playing
against this particular person's thing
of like winning he was incredibly smart
he loved winning so I set up a situation
where the only way he could win to do
the work
too he just had to do he was winning in
a different way because yes yeah it was
set up to bring him through the work but
for him the way he because of like the
entrepreneur and what he did the way he
saw winning and losing was through money
right so he him creating a billion or
multi-billion dollar company wasn't
about
like I've I've made money it was like
look I won you know he he would be the
person who was tracking like I sold my
company with 37 ownership and this
person sold their company at 35
ownership I won you know and so it was
just the scorecard
and so there was just I was just
building a game
yeah for him through the money and that
was that was when I that's when I just
saw oh money is this thing that is just
one more tool towards Awakening
because that's what I'm interested in
so that that was that was kind of the
thing and then the only thing that's
really happened since then that which is
interesting is you know now I don't play
Happy Money game with clients and
there's
some aspect that that creates some
sadness
um because it's
but I don't have because the money the
the game that I'm playing now for
transformation is so much bigger it's
like how do I
how do I use money in different you know
master class and clients and everything
so that I can make this as a make it so
that people who want it have have it
available at least in some way right so
if you look at the way that my business
yeah my my business runs right now our
business runs right now is it's like
there's more and more Revenue every year
but not really any more net it's more
and more gross because we're just taking
all the money that we make and put it
into
ways of like you know supporting the
community or growing the the capacity
for people to find it or to so I'm I'm
still interested in the transformation
but it's become less about how do I help
one person transform with money and
how do I use money as a tool for doing
this with one person and it's turned
into how do I use money as a tool for
doing this with as many people as
possible
as long as that just stays in Joy like I
scale isn't the most important thing by
any stretch for me
um but when it comes to money that's
what it's that's the game I'm playing
with it
so that's been really interesting too
because it's like there's this weird way
in which
money has become even less personal
it's like unless it's less about an
individual thing and it's more about a
systemic thing
so that's been really interesting for me
as well and I and I I'm sure it'll
continue to change
yeah that comes back to the alignment
piece for me like as as I've been going
through my journey with with money and
with this work I find as you described
money gets easier and also one of the
ways that it gets easier is that I'm
holding myself to less money standards
about like what I'm supposed to be like
what would be successful of me and it's
more about like money becomes easier
because it's actually just like the
concept of working with it is
the concept and the experience of it is
more in alignment
with what I actually want to be doing
with my time in my life and how I want
to be experiencing it which is yeah
a lot of the projection around money
being the thing that will fill the void
Falls away
yeah yeah or can supply anything that
you might think fills the void
awesome
yeah yeah wow that was a really fun
episode yeah thank you I enjoyed it
thanks for thanks for thanks for making
that happen thank you everybody for
listening
tune in in a couple weeks for our next
episode we don't know what it's on yet
but we'll find out
if you had any epiphanies or questions
hit us up on Twitter at Art of a comp
and you can also just reach out to us
via email or contact form at Art of
accomplishment.com awesome all right see
you next time